Schema Coordinates: add spec edit (#794)
graphql/graphql-spec: spec/Section 3 -- Type System.md

2. Any non-repeatable directives provided must not already apply to the
   original Schema.

### Schema Coordinates

> Schema Coordinates are human readable strings that uniquely identify an element defined in a GraphQL Schema.

Author: I've also been using "member" (unintentionally) interchangeably, which I've heard others use in this context.

"element" feels more computery to me, but happy to go with whatever the established terminology is :D

> Schema Coordinates are human readable strings that uniquely identify an element defined in a GraphQL Schema.

Reviewer: I don't think we have an existing word for this concept, but if we're worried about this being unclear we could just be more verbose:

> Schema Coordinates are human readable strings that uniquely identify a specific type, field, argument, enum value, or directive defined in a GraphQL Schema.

**Definition**

SchemaCoordinate:
  - Name
  - Name . Name
  - Name . Name ( Name : )
  - @ Name
  - @ Name ( Name : )

**Semantics**

SchemaCoordinate: Name
  1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.

>   2. Return the type in the schema named {typeName}.

Author: Assuming that "type in the schema" applies to scalar types too? Is this worth clarifying?

Reviewer 2: I don't think this needs clarification.

SchemaCoordinate: Name . Name
  1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
  2. Let {type} be the type in the schema named {typeName}.
  3. If {type} is an Enum type:
    1. Let {enumName} be the value of the second {Name}.

>     2. Return the enum value of {type} named {enumName}.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this should be `enumValueName` rather than `enumName` (which sounds to me like the type name).

  4. Otherwise if {type} is an Input Object type:
    1. Let {inputFieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
    2. Return the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}.

>   5. Otherwise {type} must be an Object or Interface type:
>     1. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
>     2. Return the field of {type} named {fieldName}.

Reviewer 2: I think making the assertion explicit is more in keeping with the rest of the algorithm:

```suggestion
  5. Otherwise:
    1. Assert: {type} must be an Object or Interface type.
    2. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
    3. Return the field of {type} named {fieldName}.
```

| `Business.name`                | `name` field on the `Business` type                                 |
| `User.name`                    | `name` field on the `User` type                                     |
| `Query.searchBusiness(name:)`  | `name` argument on the `searchBusiness` field on the `Query` type   |
| `Query.searchBusiness(filter:)`| `filter` argument on the `searchBusiness` field on the `Query` type |
| `SearchFilter`                 | `SearchFilter` enum                                                 |
| `SearchFilter.OPEN_NOW`        | `OPEN_NOW` value of the`SearchFilter` enum                          |
| `@private`                     | `@private` directive definition                                     |
| `@private(scope:)`             | `scope` argument on the `@private` directive definition             |
| `Address`                      | `Address` interface                                                 |
| `Address.city`                 | `city` field on the `Address` interface                             |
| `ReviewInput`                  | `ReviewInput` input object type                                     |

> | `ReviewInput.author`           | `author` field on the `ReviewInput` input object type               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `ReviewInput.author`           | `author` input field on the `ReviewInput` input object type         |
```

2. Any non-repeatable directives provided must not already apply to the
   original Schema.

### Schema Coordinates

Schema Coordinates are human readable strings that uniquely identify an element defined in a GraphQL Schema.

**Definition**

> SchemaCoordinate:

Reviewer: I think we might want a `Note:` below this definition making it clear that `SchemaCoordinate` is not part of a `GraphQLDocument` and mentions the expected use case

| `SearchFilter.OPEN_NOW`        | `OPEN_NOW` value of the`SearchFilter` enum                          |
| `@private`                     | `@private` directive definition                                     |
| `@private(scope:)`             | `scope` argument on the `@private` directive definition             |
| `Address`                      | `Address` interface                                                 |
| `Address.city`                 | `city` field on the `Address` interface                             |
| `ReviewInput`                  | `ReviewInput` input object type                                     |
| `ReviewInput.author`           | `author` input field on the `ReviewInput` input object type         |
| `Entity`                       | `Entity` union definition                                           |
| `DateTime`                     | Custom `DateTime` scalar type                                       |
| `String`                       | Built-in `String` scalar type                                       |

Schema Coordinates are always unique. Each type, field, argument, enum value, or

> directive may be referenced by exactly one possible Schema Coordinate.

Author: feels like something worth highlighting and being clear about as a guarantee in the spec

For example, the following is *not* a valid Schema Coordinate:

```graphql counter-example
Entity.Business
```

In this counter example, both `Entity.Business` and `Business` would refer to
the `Business` type. Since it would be ambiguous what the "primary key" should
be in an application that uses Schema Coordinates to reference types, this is

> not allowed.

Author: is this waffle? thought it might be helpful to have a little explanation/demonstration of this property

Author: Could just be

```diff
- Since it would be ambiguous what the "primary key" should be in an application that uses Schema Coordinates to reference types, this is not allowed.
+ Such ambiguity is disallowed.
```

(More terse, but doesn't walk the reader through _why_ this is bad)

Reviewer 2: > In this counter example, `Entity.Business` is redundant since `Business` already uniquely identifies the `Business` type. Such redundancy is disallowed by this spec - every type, field, field argument, enum value, directive, and directive argument has exactly one canonical Schema Coordinate.

Author: 👍 thanks benjie, stealing this wording

```graphql example
scalar UUID @specifiedBy(url: "https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122")
```

## Schema Coordinates

SchemaCoordinate :
  - Name
  - Name . Name
  - Name . Name ( Name : )
  - @ Name
  - @ Name ( Name : )

:: A *schema coordinate* is a human readable string that uniquely identifies a
*schema element* within a GraphQL Schema.

:: A *schema element* is a specific instance of a named type, type field,

> input field, enum value, field argument, directive, or directive argument.

Reviewer 2: Great use of the new spec-md definitions feature :+1:

A *schema coordinate* is always unique. Each *schema element* may be referenced
by exactly one possible schema coordinate.

A *schema coordinate* may refer to either a defined or built-in *schema element*.
For example, `String` and `@deprecated(reason:)` are both valid schema
coordinates which refer to built-in schema elements.

Note: A {SchemaCoordinate} is not a definition within a GraphQL {Document}, but

> a separate stand-alone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's necessary to hyphenate `stand-alone` these days:

```suggestion
a separate standalone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,
```

Reviewer: TIL https://brians.wsu.edu/2016/05/31/standalone-stand-alone/

A *schema coordinate* is always unique. Each *schema element* may be referenced
by exactly one possible schema coordinate.

A *schema coordinate* may refer to either a defined or built-in *schema element*.
For example, `String` and `@deprecated(reason:)` are both valid schema
coordinates which refer to built-in schema elements. However it must not refer
to a meta-field. For example, `Business.__typename` is *not* a valid
schema coordinate.

Note: A {SchemaCoordinate} is not a definition within a GraphQL {Document}, but
a separate standalone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,
fields, and other *schema element*s. For example as references within
documentation, or as lookup keys in usage frequency tracking.

**Semantics**

To refer to a *schema element*, a *schema coordinate* must be interpreted in the
context of a GraphQL {schema}.

SchemaCoordinate : Name
  1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
  2. Return the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.

SchemaCoordinate : Name . Name
  1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
  2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.

>   3. If {type} is an Enum type:
>     1. Let {enumValueName} be the value of the second {Name}.
>     2. Return the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}.
>   4. Otherwise if {type} is an Input Object type:
>     1. Let {inputFieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
>     2. Return the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}.
>   5. Otherwise:
>     1. Assert {type} must be an Object or Interface type.
>     2. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
>     3. Return the field of {type} named {fieldName}.

Reviewer 3: I think this section should also specify the behaviour for Union types.
At the moment the spec does not define the behaviour for `Union.UnionTypeMember` 

```suggestion
  3. If {type} is an Union type:
    1. Assert {type} must be an Enum, Input Object, Object or Interface type.
  4. If {type} is an Enum type:
    1. Let {enumValueName} be the value of the second {Name}.
    2. Return the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}.
  5. Otherwise if {type} is an Input Object type:
    1. Let {inputFieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
    2. Return the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}.
  6. Otherwise:
    1. Assert {type} must be an Object or Interface type.
    2. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
    3. Return the field of {type} named {fieldName}.
```

Author: > UnionTypeMember

The definition for this would live somewhere else in the schema, outside of the context of the union. You would write the schema coordinate to that instead.

The rule of thumb is: there should only be one way to reference a thing with Schema Coordinates

Reviewer 3: @magicmark  I understand, though the algorithm is still wrong.

Reviewer 3: @magicmark  Makes sense to me

Author: @leebyron is it worth keeping in the clarification (or something similar) from a previous commit?

<img width="617" alt="Screen Shot 2021-12-31 at 4 42 48 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1590756/147824058-8addb64b-76ef-4c82-b976-0dca94a96f44.png">

My gut says this may crop up again and cause some confusion - worth a counter example?

Reviewer 4: > @leebyron is it worth keeping in the clarification (or something similar) from a previous commit?
> 
> [magicmark/graphql-spec@`ac5318f`/spec/Section%203%20--%20Type%20System.md?plain=1#L391-L399](https://github.com/magicmark/graphql-spec/blob/ac5318f9a9f04d0f8dd03d3758d5ca2654f7f7d7/spec/Section%203%20--%20Type%20System.md?plain=1#L391-L399)
> 
> My gut says this may crop up again and cause some confusion - worth the counter example?

Just chiming in. From my perspective the counter example would be ideal (maybe even clarify that directives on types are also invalid?).

Maybe add a line on *why* union members are not valid schema coordinates, instead of solely stating that they are not?

```diff
- Note: You may not select members inside a union definition.
+ Note: Union members do not uniquely identify elements in the schema. Therefore the following counter example is *not* considered a valid Schema Coordinate:
```

...or something along those lines

Author: fwiw this is all sort of encapsulated by the following line the spec:

> A *schema coordinate* is always unique. Each *schema element* may be referenced
> by exactly one possible schema coordinate.

++ for the explainer, I would maybe try and reuse this language, or hyperlink back to this source of truth somehow

```graphql example
scalar UUID @specifiedBy(url: "https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122")
```

## Schema Coordinates

SchemaCoordinate :

- Name
- Name . Name
- Name . Name ( Name : )
- @ Name
- @ Name ( Name : )

:: A _schema coordinate_ is a human readable string that uniquely identifies a
_schema element_ within a GraphQL Schema.

> :: A _schema element_ can be a named type, a field, an input
> a field, an enum value, a field argument, a directive, or a directive argument.

Reviewer 5: Woops, I put an `a` too many, apologies 😬 

```suggestion
:: A _schema element_ can be a named type, a field, an input 
field, an enum value, a field argument, a directive, or a directive argument.
```

> :: A _schema element_ is a specific instance of a named type, field, input
> field, enum value, field argument, directive, or directive argument.

Reviewer 5: Nit: "instance" has very much a "runtime" connotation to me. Could we maybe get rid of it?

```suggestion
:: A _schema element_ can be a named type, a field, an input
a field, an enum value, a field argument, a directive, or a directive argument.
```

A _schema coordinate_ is always unique. Each _schema element_ may be referenced
by exactly one possible schema coordinate.

A _schema coordinate_ may refer to either a defined or built-in _schema
element_. For example, `String` and `@deprecated(reason:)` are both valid schema
coordinates which refer to built-in schema elements. However it must not refer
to a meta-field. For example, `Business.__typename` is _not_ a valid schema

> coordinate.

Reviewer 5: Is there a specific reason to forbid meta fields? I can definitely see myself using it. For an example to log introspection usages of my server.

Author: Good question! I don't actually remember if there was a technical reason, or if was around limiting the spec to the intended application use cases 🤔 

This [blames](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/commit/b65eb313af7a844d243473743881412cad049014) to @leebyron, so ping Lee to see if he remembers.

Author: @leebyron any thoughts?

Note: A union member is not a valid _schema coordinate_ as they reference
existing types in the schema. This preserves the uniqueness property of a
_schema coordinate_ as stated above.

Note: A {SchemaCoordinate} is not a definition within a GraphQL {Document}, but
a separate standalone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,
fields, and other *schema element*s. Examples include: as references within
documentation to refer to types and fields in a schema, a lookup key that can be
used in logging tools to track how often particular fields are queried in
production.

**Semantics**

To refer to a _schema element_, a _schema coordinate_ must be interpreted in the
context of a GraphQL {schema}.

SchemaCoordinate : Name

> 1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
> 2. Return the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
> 

Reviewer 5: Nit: should we assert that the type exists?

```suggestion
1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
3. Assert {type} exists.
4. Return {type}.

```

This is mainly for symmetry with the "argument coordinate" case below which asserts field existence and are therefore allowed to "fail".  Asserting that the type exists makes it explicit that a coordinate may "fail".

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should do this. For example, if you wanted to ask the question "Does `Foo.bar(baz:)` exist in the schema, you might first check the schema coord `Foo` and make sure it's an object or interface, and then check `Foo.bar` exists, and finally access `Foo.bar(baz:)`. It should not be required that checking for `Foo` causes it to throw IMO - returning `null` seems not unreasonable. Throwing if you try to access `Foo.bar(baz:)` when `Foo.bar` doesn't exist does however seem reasonable.

Reviewer 5: Does it even make sense to have "throw" or return "null"? I mean this is all declarative, it should be possible to represent an invalid coordinate if people want (for counter examples or whatever...). 

If we were to actually implement a function I would probably use a verb:

```
GetAstNode(SchemaCoordinate):
...
```

Do we want graphql-js to have such functions?

Reviewer 2: That's effectively what we're doing

> To refer to a _schema element_, a _schema coordinate_ must be interpreted in the context of a GraphQL {schema}.

I.e. a schema coordinate can exist, but if you want to refer to a schema element then you follow the algorithm.

Reviewer 5: Alright so what we're saying is:

```
throws if any component leading to the last component.
returns null if the last component of the coordinate is not found.
else return thee element.
```

If we're going that road, I would say we probably need to be explicit about it:

```
1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. If there is not type in the schema named {typeName} return null.
2. Else let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
4. return {type}.
```

Author: > it should be possible to represent an invalid coordinate if people want (for counter examples or whatever...)

At this risk of going down a rabbit hole of over-explicitness -- the spec as written states "a _schema coordinate_ must be interpreted in the context of a GraphQL {schema}." 

We are encoding parsing and validating within the same set of instructions here.

If we wanted to explicitly allow for "representing an invalid coordinate" without someone tutting at you, we _could_ expose seperate parse() and validate() functions in the graphql-js implementation, which would mirror this spec edit

Reviewer 5: @magicmark I like this 👍 . It's also more consistent with the rest of the spec.

Reviewer 5: After reading the [graphql-js PR](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/3044/files), I think it'd make sense to have `resolveTypeCoordinate(TypeCoordinate)`, `resolveMemberCoordinate(MemberCoordinate)`, etc...

I can look into this for the next working group if there is interest, just let me know.

```

## Schema Coordinates

SchemaCoordinate :

- Name
- Name . Name
- Name . Name ( Name : )
- @ Name
- @ Name ( Name : )

:: A _schema coordinate_ is a human readable string that uniquely identifies a
_schema element_ within a GraphQL Schema.

:: A _schema element_ can be a named type, a field, an input field, an enum
value, a field argument, a directive, or a directive argument.

A _schema coordinate_ is always unique. Each _schema element_ can be referenced
by exactly one possible schema coordinate.

A _schema coordinate_ may refer to either a defined or built-in _schema
element_. For example, `String` and `@deprecated(reason:)` are both valid schema
coordinates which refer to built-in schema elements. However it must not refer
to a meta-field. For example, `Business.__typename` is _not_ a valid schema
coordinate.

Note: A union member is not a valid _schema coordinate_ as they reference
existing types in the schema. This preserves the uniqueness property of a
_schema coordinate_ as stated above.

Note: A {SchemaCoordinate} is not a definition within a GraphQL {Document}, but
a separate standalone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,

> fields, and other *schema element*s. Examples include: as references within

Reviewer 2: We never pluralise references. I know, its weird.

```suggestion
fields, and other _schema element_. Examples include: references within
```

documentation to refer to types and fields in a schema, a lookup key that can be
used in logging tools to track how often particular fields are queried in
production.

**Resolving a Schema Coordinate**

To refer to a _schema element_, a _schema coordinate_ must be interpreted in the
context of a GraphQL {schema}.

If the _schema element_ cannot be found, the resolve function will not yield a

> value (without raising an error). However, an error **will** be raised if any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
value (without raising an error). However, an error will be raised if any
```

non-leaf nodes within a _schema coordinate_ cannot be found in the {schema}.

SchemaCoordinate : Name

1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.

> 2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
> 3. If {type} does not exist, return {null}.
> 4. Return {type}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Return the type in the {schema} named {typeName}, or {null} if no such type exists.
```

SchemaCoordinate : Name . Name

1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
3. Assert: {type} must exist.
4. If {type} is an Enum type:
   1. Let {enumValueName} be the value of the second {Name}.

>    2. Let {enumValue} be the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}.
>    3. If {enumValue} does not exist, return {null}.
>    4. Return {enumValue}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. Return the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}, or {null} if no such value exists.
```

5. Otherwise, if {type} is an Input Object type:
   1. Let {inputFieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.

>    2. Let {inputField} be the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}.
>    3. If {inputField} does not exist, return {null}.
>    4. Return {inputField}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. Return the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}, or {null} if no such input field exists.
```

> 1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
> 2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
> 3. Assert {type} must exist.
> 4. If {type} is an Enum type:
> 5. Let {enumValueName} be the value of the second {Name}.
> 6. Let {enumValue} be the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}.
> 7. If {enumValue} does not exist, return {null}.
> 8. Return {enumValue}.
> 9. Otherwise if {type} is an Input Object type:
> 10. Let {inputFieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
> 11. Let {inputField} be the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}.
> 12. If {inputField} does not exist, return {null}.
> 13. Return {inputField}.
> 14. Otherwise:
> 15. Assert {type} must be an Object or Interface type.
> 16. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
> 17. Let {field} be the field of {type} named {fieldName}.
> 18. If {field} does not exist, return {null}.
> 19. Return {field}.

Reviewer 2: Fixed the indentation. I also think these algorithms are a little verbose (could use 2 steps instead of 4, with second being e.g. `Return the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}, or {null} if no such value exists.`

```suggestion
1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
3. Assert: {type} must exist.
4. If {type} is an Enum type:
   1. Let {enumValueName} be the value of the second {Name}.
   2. Let {enumValue} be the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}.
   3. If {enumValue} does not exist, return {null}.
   4. Return {enumValue}.
5. Otherwise, if {type} is an Input Object type:
   1. Let {inputFieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
   2. Let {inputField} be the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}.
   3. If {inputField} does not exist, return {null}.
   4. Return {inputField}.
6. Otherwise:
   1. Assert {type} must be an Object or Interface type.
   2. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
   3. Let {field} be the field of {type} named {fieldName}.
   4. If {field} does not exist, return {null}.
   5. Return {field}.
```

>    3. Let {field} be the field of {type} named {fieldName}.
>    4. If {field} does not exist, return {null}.
>    5. Return {field}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   3. Return the field of {type} named {fieldName}, or {null} if no such field exists.
```

SchemaCoordinate : Name . Name ( Name : )

1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.

> 3. Assert {type} must exist.
> 4. Assert {type} must be an Object or Interface type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Assert: {type} must exist.
4. Assert: {type} must be an Object or Interface type.
```

5. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
6. Let {field} be the field of {type} named {fieldName}.

> 7. Assert {field} must exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Assert: {field} must exist.
```

8. Let {fieldArgumentName} be the value of the third {Name}.

> 9. Let {fieldArgument} be the argument of {field} named {fieldArgumentName}.
> 10. If {fieldArgument} does not exist, return {null}.
> 11. Return {fieldArgument}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Return the argument of {field} named {fieldArgumentName}, or {null} if no such argument exists.
```

SchemaCoordinate : @ Name

1. Let {directiveName} be the value of the first {Name}.

> 2. Let {directive} be the directive in the {schema} named {directiveName}.
> 3. If {directive} does not exist, return {null}.
> 4. Return {directive}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Return the directive in the {schema} named {directiveName}, or {null} if no such directive exists.
```

SchemaCoordinate : @ Name ( Name : )

1. Let {directiveName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. Let {directive} be the directive in the {schema} named {directiveName}.
3. Assert {directive} must exist.
4. Let {directiveArgumentName} be the value of the second {Name}.

> 5. Let {directiveArgument} be the argument of {directive} named.
>    {directiveArgumentName}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Let {directiveArgument} be the argument of {directive} named
   {directiveArgumentName}.
```

> 5. Let {directiveArgument} be the argument of {directive} named
>    {directiveArgumentName}.
> 6. If {directiveArgument} does not exist, return {null}.
> 7. Return {directiveArgument}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Return the argument of {directive} named
   {directiveArgumentName}, or {null} if no such argument exists.
```

coordinates which refer to built-in schema elements. However it must not refer
to a meta-field. For example, `Business.__typename` is _not_ a valid schema
coordinate.

Note: Union members are not valid _schema coordinate_ as they reference existing
types in the schema. This preserves the uniqueness property of a _schema
coordinate_ as stated above.

Note: A {SchemaCoordinate} is not a definition within a GraphQL {Document}, but
a separate standalone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,
fields, and other _schema element_. Examples include: references within
documentation to refer to types and fields in a schema, a lookup key that can be
used in logging tools to track how often particular fields are queried in
production.

**Resolving a Schema Coordinate**

To refer to a _schema element_, a _schema coordinate_ must be interpreted in the
context of a GraphQL {schema}.

If the _schema element_ cannot be found, the resolve function will not yield a
value (without raising an error). However, an error will be raised if any
non-leaf nodes within a _schema coordinate_ cannot be found in the {schema}.

TypeCoordinate : Name

> 1. Let {typeName} be the value of {Name}.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Let {typeName} be the value of {Name}.
1. Assert: {typeName} must not begin with "__" (two underscores).
```

2. Return the type in the {schema} named {typeName}, or {null} if no such type
   exists.

MemberCoordinate : Name . Name

> 1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. Assert: {typeName} must not be a meta-field.
```

Author: Teeing this up in anticipation that we decide on this for now.

Could also be phrased as `Assert: {typeName} must not begin with {__} (two underscores)`

Given this:

> All types and directives defined within a schema must not have a name which begins with "__" (two underscores), as this is used exclusively by GraphQL’s introspection system.

but former seems preferred for brevity?

(that is, assuming that all fields prefixed with `__` are meta-fields and vice versa. I think this is the case but not explicitly stated this is the same set afaict?)

> 2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
3. Assert: The value of the second {Name} does not begin with "__" (two underscores).
```

3. Assert: {type} must exist, and must be an Enum, Input Object, Object or
   Interface type.
4. If {type} is an Enum type:
   1. Let {enumValueName} be the value of the second {Name}.
   2. Return the enum value of {type} named {enumValueName}, or {null} if no
      such value exists.
5. Otherwise, if {type} is an Input Object type:
   1. Let {inputFieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
   2. Return the input field of {type} named {inputFieldName}, or {null} if no
      such input field exists.
6. Otherwise:
   1. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.
   2. Return the field of {type} named {fieldName}, or {null} if no such field
      exists.

ArgumentCoordinate : Name . Name ( Name : )

1. Let {typeName} be the value of the first {Name}.
2. Let {type} be the type in the {schema} named {typeName}.
3. Assert: {type} must exist, and be an Object or Interface type.

> 4. Let {fieldName} be the value of the second {Name}.

Author: e.g. 
__type(name: String!): __Type

https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Schema-Introspection

ArgumentCoordinate : Name . Name ( Name : )

DirectiveCoordinate : @ Name

DirectiveArgumentCoordinate : @ Name ( Name : )

:: A _schema coordinate_ is a human readable string that uniquely identifies a
_schema element_ within a GraphQL Schema.

:: A _schema element_ can be a named type, a field, an input field, an enum
value, a field argument, a directive, or a directive argument defined within a
schema (including built-in types and directives).

Note: Meta-fields are not defined within a schema, and thus are not _schema
element_. By extension, an introspection type is not a _schema element_.

:: The _containing element_ of a _schema element_ is the schema element with one
fewer {Name} token that syntactically contains it. Specifically:

- The containing element of an {ArgumentCoordinate} is a {MemberCoordinate}.
- The containing element of a {MemberCoordinate} is a {TypeCoordinate}.
- The containing element of a {DirectiveArgumentCoordinate} is a
  {DirectiveCoordinate}.
- {TypeCoordinate} and {DirectiveCoordinate} have no containing element.

A _schema coordinate_ is always unique. Each _schema element_ can be referenced
by exactly one possible schema coordinate.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Note: To ensure uniqueness, {Ignored} tokens not valid inside a _schema coordinate_.
```

Author: @benjie I suppose it would be most correct to add a `lookahead` rule to the grammars above, but that would end up being super super verbose - is there any shorthand for this?

Author: In fact:

> Ignored tokens are [...] not referenced in syntactical grammar productions.
> Any amount of Ignored may appear before and after every lexical token

~ https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Language.Source-Text.Ignored-Tokens

So we'd want to change this.... but only in the case of when parsing schema coordinates? Which would lead to a tricky change to the parse() function... 🤔 

(almost feels like at this point you'd be easier off with an entirely different and dedicated `parseSchemaCoordinate()` function)

Author: One option of course it to fudge it and add a little context to our otherwise(?) context free grammar (lots of prior art in other languages) and add a special rule in the parser that says "if you're about to yield a schema coordinate, bail out if you encountered any {Ignored} tokens"

I'd maybe vote for that?

Author: took a stab at implementation here: https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4450

A _schema coordinate_ may refer to either a defined or built-in _schema
element_. For example, `String` and `@deprecated(reason:)` are both valid schema
coordinates which refer to built-in schema elements.

Note: Union members are not valid _schema coordinate_ as they reference existing
types in the schema. This preserves the uniqueness property of a _schema
coordinate_ as stated above.

Note: A {SchemaCoordinate} is not a definition within a GraphQL {Document}, but
a separate standalone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,
fields, and other _schema element_. Examples include: references within
documentation to refer to types and fields in a schema, a lookup key that can be
used in logging tools to track how often particular fields are queried in

> production.

Reviewer 2: How about this, @magicmark?

```suggestion
production.

**Lexical Analysis & Syntactic Parse of a Schema Coordinate**

The source text of a _schema coordinate_ is processed in the same way as that of
a GraphQL document, as laid out in the [Language](#sec-Language) section, with
the exception that {Ignored} tokens are disallowed. A schema coordinate must
therefore not contain whitespace, line terminators, comments, commas, or a _Byte
Order Mark_. This constraint ensures that schema coordinates are both
unambiguous and unique.
```

Author: Added a "with the exception of _schema coordinate_" here to avoid a contradiction

https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/pull/794/commits/f4eec91893d26a65d75bdeba73a6a815190ab710

```graphql example
scalar UUID @specifiedBy(url: "https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122")
```

## Schema Coordinates

SchemaCoordinate :

- TypeCoordinate
- MemberCoordinate
- ArgumentCoordinate
- DirectiveCoordinate
- DirectiveArgumentCoordinate

TypeCoordinate : Name

MemberCoordinate : Name . Name

ArgumentCoordinate : Name . Name ( Name : )

DirectiveCoordinate : @ Name

DirectiveArgumentCoordinate : @ Name ( Name : )

> Note: A _schema coordinate_ is defined with its own grammar and may not include
> any other tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: A _schema coordinate_ is defined with its own grammar that, unlike GraphQL
documents, excludes {Ignored} lexical grammars (see: [Lexical Analysis &
Syntactic Parse of a Schema Coordinate](
(#sec-Type-System.Schema-Coordinates.Lexical-Analysis-Syntactic-Parse-of-a-Schema-Coordinate)).
```

_schema element_ within a GraphQL Schema.

:: A _schema element_ can be a named type, a field, an input field, an enum
value, a field argument, a directive, or a directive argument defined within a
schema (including built-in types and directives).

Note: Meta-fields are not defined within a schema, and thus are not _schema
element_. By extension, an introspection type is not a _schema element_.

:: The _containing element_ of a _schema element_ is the schema element with one
fewer {Name} token that syntactically contains it. Specifically:

- The containing element of an {ArgumentCoordinate} is a {MemberCoordinate}.
- The containing element of a {MemberCoordinate} is a {TypeCoordinate}.
- The containing element of a {DirectiveArgumentCoordinate} is a
  {DirectiveCoordinate}.
- {TypeCoordinate} and {DirectiveCoordinate} have no containing element.

A _schema coordinate_ is always unique. Each _schema element_ can be referenced
by exactly one possible schema coordinate.

A _schema coordinate_ may refer to either a defined or built-in _schema
element_. For example, `String` and `@deprecated(reason:)` are both valid schema
coordinates which refer to built-in schema elements.

> Note: Union members are not valid _schema coordinate_ as they reference existing
> types in the schema. This preserves the uniqueness property of a _schema
> coordinate_ as stated above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: A union member references a type in the schema. A type in the schema is
identified by a {TypeCoordinate}. There is no schema coordinate which indicates
a union member; this preserves the uniqueness property of a _schema coordinate_
as stated above.
```

Note: A {SchemaCoordinate} is not a definition within a GraphQL {Document}, but
a separate standalone grammar, intended to be used by tools to reference types,
fields, and other _schema element_. Examples include: references within
documentation to refer to types and fields in a schema, a lookup key that can be
used in logging tools to track how often particular fields are queried in
production.

**Lexical Analysis & Syntactic Parse of a Schema Coordinate**

> The source text of a _schema coordinate_ is processed in the same way as that of
> a GraphQL document, as laid out in the [Language](#sec-Language) section, with
> the exception that only the subset of tokens as described in the grammar above
> may be considered. A schema coordinate must therefore not contain whitespace,
> line terminators, comments, commas, or a _Byte Order Mark_. This constraint
> ensures that schema coordinates are both unambiguous and unique.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to [GraphQL documents](#sec-Language), a schema coordinate is defined as
a syntactic grammar where terminal symbols are tokens (indivisible lexical
units). These tokens are defined in a lexical grammar which matches patterns of
source characters. The source text of a schema coordinate must be a sequence of
{SourceCharacter}. The character sequence must be described by a sequence of
{Token} lexical grammars. The lexical token sequence, must be described by a
single {SchemaCoordinate} syntactic grammar.

Unlike with GraphQL documents, {Ignored} lexical grammars are not permitted
within the character sequence; a schema coordinate must therefore not contain
whitespace, line terminators, comments, commas, or a _Byte Order Mark_. This
constraint ensures that schema coordinates are both unambiguous and unique.
```
